The school was full bloom of the Buddha who? That's what we thought, and for those reasons
in the teaching, in the Nyingma schools of the Buddhism, we thought about nine Jana teachings,
nine different levels of teachings, and not just even that, even before that, what would
I give teaching? The teachings on the human beings and God's realms, teachings, that
mean what? That means because the Buddha gives the teaching that can collect it to discover
the higher potentials of each of their qualities to take the rebirth. In the human realms and
as well as God's realms, those other teachings said in the Sanskrit world, I'm not really
good at Sanskrit but in the U.S. world, manusha yana and deva yanas. Manusha is a human being
and deva is God's yana. So that means what are those yanas? Those are basic goodness,
that those goodness. For example, for example, chain rituals, telly by the, I'm not going
to list, you all know that, telly by the body, pull by the speech, and telly by the mind,
all together known as ten virtues. Ten virtues. Almost everything is ten non-virtues. That
you know. Ten virtues is not just a kind of an exception to Buddhism. According to Buddhism,
that is human, every human, decent human really believes, follow with that. That's what the
Buddha taught. That is the foundation of all the teachings. Buddha teaching is best, best
on the good concept, the good nature of the great things in the world and then improved
or expanded, developed. So ten virtues. And then it's okay to be there, such as, and so
with that, for example, those are parameters. Also, people do those. Even non-Buddhist has
parameters, not transcendental parameters, but parameters. Those are known as also what
are those parameters, of course, many of you already know, but generosity, morality, patience,
and joyful effort, concentric, wisdom. Everyone believes those. Everyone do those. Everyone
do generosity. Everyone do good conduct. Everyone talking, even the political talking conduct.
This really, this all that becomes so popular. It's morality. And then patience. Patience
is also tolerance. Patience, or sorrow. And then effort. Effort is important. That is also
magic. And then the concentric, let the mind from now talk to more mindfulness, all this.
And then wisdom, knowledge, understanding those. That's why the terminology exists into
every country. Because they have that. It's human value. But Buddha teaching is more expanded,
more stronger, more deeper. But when we have those good qualities of human beings, what
is the teaching said? Everything has a result, cause and result. It will bring higher rebirth
in the next life. Even in this life, we will have good life, peaceful, more content, more
kind of soothing lifetimes. And that result will have good rebirth in the next life. Not
three lorems, but higher rebirths, such as human realms and God's realms. Those are
really teachings. Those are known as the Rigulavas. Above that, then the teaching, what is teaching
?
That's the only teaching. Then, such as Buddhism, above that, then the six paramatas practices,
which we asked upon the transcendental paramatas practices. And then we do, those are, what
mean? No ego clings or no attachment. And widely performing that. We do the discrimination
of all those Buddha's instructors in the teaching management. Then it become high. And that
goes higher and higher and deeper and deeper. And those are known as the Chhiavaka Jhanas,
Parthi Buddha Jhanas. And as well as Bodhisattva Jhanas. It goes higher and higher and deeper
and deeper. And also the realization of those different levels, such as in a human Jhana
or the world, the good Jhanas, didn't really talk about any emptiness, anything. Nothing,
but then in the Hatha Jhanas. Hatha Jhanas is egolessness. Those are the spiritual Bodhisattva
Jhanas, egolessness. And well, Parthi Buddha Jhanas teaching, Manchini always teaches that
egolessness state of the subject and object, half of the object. I'm sorry, I think I mixed
it up again. And in Parthi Jhanas, you have the realization of the emptiness of the object
and subject is half of that. So there's always an emptiness realization of the one and half.
Then in the Mahayana teaching, then all the emptiness states. That's what it means. It's
not just emptiness, completely blank states. And everything is taught teaching as two truths,
two truths. Related truths are displays, illusion displays of the absolute truth. What related
truth is the magic dream and reflection moon in the waters. And as well as the dream, those
are these related truths that exist, but our self, the regular duality of our self means
clinging, grasping so strongly that reality it is really like illusions. Not just the
object is illusion, but also mind is illusion. Subject and object are all illusion states
in the relative levels. All are connected also so many factors, those are known as interdependent
co-ordinations or interconnectedness or the aging revenue, I think the very word, the
aging revenue of that, all arises. And each of those, then absolute level is in the empty.
Empty is beyond existence. All empty, there's nothing to hold. But yet it's appearing, therefore
it's called magic display, dream-like disciplines. That is the Mahayana teachings. Really, of
course, you all know, I'm just saying those things, I say they remind us to all about them.
In the Mahayana teachings, then that extended, not just only that, they're empty, but now
in the teaching explaining, they are kind of enlightened states. Enlightened states,
on them, not just empty, but all this display, related truths are enlightened states. They
are like medallas, those are in the teaching state. And then we go to the inner dandalus,
then they clearly explain song, poem is enlightened, song is enlightened, and the mind and the
space are enlightened, absolutely. And then in the Dokki teaching, all is a display of
the origin and nature, very clearly, strongly, origin and nature of our mind. Each of our
mind is created of a perception, of a conception. It's reflecting back. So that means, five
outer gaps, all is a creation of each of our mind, of the origin and nature of the mind.
And that is creation. Mind is enlightened, therefore it is creation is enlightened states.
Those clearly explain. So among these teachings, that's what the great teacher Buddha taught.
On a high level, in the teaching state, the teachings are taught as a staircase, staircase.
All that staircase, there's nine staircase or nine steps, one up, but the first step,
second step is dependent to the first step. Third step is dependent on the second step.
So is it dependent? And therefore, therefore, in the teaching state, said what? In the Dokki
teaching, even, I mean, that's getting, what I remember somebody said in the teaching, said, true
teachings of Dokki and students, even you have the highest realization, realization as a sky,
vastness, realization as a sky, yet you will observe so thoroughly and carefully all the
other levels. So we shouldn't, great practitioners should not ignore the conduct.
Then we are disturbing our realizations and making completely kind of like contradictions
and that really will make, then, delay our realization. So therefore, everything is enlightened
in the United States, but yet follow the exactly the same as the way things are, externally,
internally, and for that reason, great master, also Nagarjuna said, if you have the good
conduct of the human beings, then heaven is not far. If you are in heaven, the enlightenment
of the Nirvana is not far. So it's all connected, all dependent. If we have no good conduct,
then we are falling back to samsara. Even you have some of the intellectual understanding
of the teachings and practices that won't really support it. So that's how all is lined up.
And now we go with this, this Dunyulumba's teaching, or this teaching we are going to
talk about is Dzokhi teachings. And Dzokhi is, again, who taught this Dzokhi teaching?
Again according to Buddhism, Buddha Shakyamuni taught these teachings, not in the regular
form, Buddha appeared in India, like as with bagging bowl and trunks bowl with that, that
customs. Buddha, those who are high in the cupboard, reading this Buddha appeared in
the Dharmakaya states, Buddha summoned the Buddhas, or Buddha read the Dada, or the
various sattva states, and then transmitted this teaching through the retinues of the
Aukhil language, retinue of the wisdom. Aukhil language, retinue of the wisdom, such as
Ayana Buddhas, and as well as all those, how he taught, or how Buddha taught, not by the
world, but not by the symbolism, by the wisdom state of the mind. My wisdom of mind, the
state of the mind transmitted without the word in the symbol everything. A word that
chimi, tundu, unbound qualities, unbound qualities for the transmitting, meaning transmitting
that teaching, those are known as mind-to-mind transmission, mind-to-mind transmission. Then
also Buddha gave these teachings to the Sambhola levels against the five dhyana Buddhas. The
Sambhola is also not just a kind of really big science, Sambhola is things, but with
medically, through again some indications, and science, and transmitted teachings to
the five dhyana Buddhas, and such as then Vajrapanis, Manjushilis, and Avalokiteshoras,
all those members. And that's what I have not transmitted. So those are known as mind-to-mind
transmission, symbolic transmission. Those are the very special terminologies, not terminologies,
special systems that are explained in the Inma teachings, and those are in the Gohyayangarva
Center, or one of the Mahayoga Center known as Hiju Jamsal. And they said how they are
transmitted by the mind, by the symbol, and by the ear, that's the meaning of those teachings.
And then this order of transmission is then, for example, when that came, and it clearly
teaching said, this Jokti teaching came 28 years after the Buddha's Chaturmunism happened
in the Rana, and then it started descending the Jokti teachings. Particularly, who discovered
is the Garabdho ji, or Garabdho ji one who discovered or bought these Jokti teachings
to this world. So then it's continued then, continued. And now the Jokti teaching itself
is divided into three categories, and those are, of course, you all know, but I'm talking
this as, again, two great teachers of the oldest lineage, lineage teachings. So therefore,
again, this teaching came from the Garabdho ji, and Garabdho ji, the scholar, they were
bought over 1,600 Jokti teachings that were bought. And then Garabdho ji's foremost student
is Medhicharyamitra, and so he received all the teachings, and Medhicharyamitra divided
that Jokti teaching into three. Of course, you all heard this so many times and know
that, maybe from me, and as well as other great masters, I'm sure. And those are known
as them, and mind sections of Jokti teaching, and space, and beat instructions. Those are
three divided. And Medhicharyamitra's foremost student is Hirisa. And Hirisa, again, received
all the teachings, and he, again, subgrouped this teaching in four different ways, particularly
of this beat instruction of the teachings. Those are known as outdoor, inner, and cigarette,
and various cigarettes, so four different. And this time, what we are practicing in this
Jokti teaching, of the Bdulilunga's teaching, and all the modern Jokti teaching, is really
the beat instruction. Among that, not just beat instruction, the outer, inner cigarette,
mostly essence. The more the essence section of the teaching, that's what we really want,
the more we follow their teachings. This teaching is then divided into two groups. Those are
known as tukkuk practices, and togal practices. We all heard that, tukkuk and togal practices.
This teaching is then, where it is, those are known as, in the 17 Jokitantas, that explaining
of these, the very sacred sections of these teachings. Jokki, Jukkubthu, which is, and
there is a second one, or third, another one, that, the eighth one, is known as Tantra of
Ekajati, Ekajati teaching, and that. And the next one is known as the Kumsambharnam,
great, blading space section of the Tantras. So those are total, the very powerful essence
of the teaching of the 19 Tantras of this essence, of the essence of the Jokti teachings.
These teachings are then translated into to be, in a time of the tesundetas, and who,
and time of the Gaurupin Masambha, great master Shandaraki, who both, who, who actually then
taught these teachings. According to the Jokit's historian, the three great masters taught
first time this look, the inner thought, the essence of the S&T to the Tibetan practitioners,
three, by three masters. Those are known as, both is Verojana, the great oscillator, and
the second is, is Gaurupin Masambha, and third is the Vman-Matthas.
When they give teaching, for these Jokti teachings, particularly among that teaching,
the first two, the mind and the space section, is particularly really taught by the Verojanas.
And then, second one, and not second one, sorry, the fourth and second are taught by the Verojana,
and be it as a talking section of the teachings and taught by the Varpim Masambha and Vman-Matthas.
And those are, in the first time, Vman-Matthas give the teachings,
teachings, not again, with big groups, small groups, Chasson Deppi, and Niyami Tungzi Zappo,
or poor students who give the teachings. And then, Vrojana Masambha give this teaching
to Ishin Chodja and Chasson Deppi and his few sons. And particularly, he entrusted,
one of the youngest daughter of the Chasson Deppi passed away when he was eight years old,
but he brought back consciousness, and he trusted, he tiled this, the essence of the essence of it,
the section of the Jokti teachings to him. To him. So he received that, and most of these are
hidden as Dharma teachings.
So that's how Jokti teaching transmitted, and then it came.
And then, Barygolary later, great master Lunkiba, who was the emanation or the reincarnation of the
youngest daughter
of the Chasson Deppi, who received the complete entire teaching of the essence,
essence which is known as heart growth of the Dakini.
Khandro Ninte, true to this youngest daughter, and Lunkiba discovered or received that in teaching.
And then, Lunkiba is really known as the second Garab Dogi, or the obtibate, or Garab Dogi obtibate
.
He clarified, he convinced, brought everything perfectly in this section of the,
complete instructions of the Jokti teachings to the students.
Those are known as whole great Jokti teachings, or essence of Jokti teachings on Khandro Ninte.
Those are, the first one is Khandro Ninte, which is the heart essence teaching of the Murpema Sambh
ama.
Second is known as the Bhama Ninte, heart essence of Murmata, which is again Jokti teaching.
And then he meant the commentary, which is known as the second Rama Ninte, and Khandro Ninte is
true.
And essence of that, condense of that one is known as the Sambhama Ninte.
Those teachings are Khandro Ninte.
And what those teachings, explaining, is Tu-Chu and Togga practices.
Tu-Chu is cutting through the technique of course, and Togga is leaping over practices.
These two add this, the essence of the Bhima Ninte and Srakram sections.
Now, this Durya Nampa's teaching is Jokti teachings of the both, Tu-Chu and Togga teaching
practices.
This contains both of these teachings.
And now, what I thought to do myself, and I'm going to go to all these teachings,
the teachings of the, specifically of the Tu-Chu sections of these teachings.
The proper section of the teachings is the seventh chapter, or the seventh section of this Shireg D
urya Nampa,
of sharp, radiant awareness, and maybe I won't go over that.
Because there are so many teachings of Togga teachings already,
and I just feel that I don't have really the capability to do these Togga teachings on the internet
in the Dzums.
Even though I don't feel comfortable in the capability to give Togga teachings,
but so many great masters are teaching, and I just also kind of follow me,
and honor lineage, and honor to all the great masters of this order of those teachings.
So I hope that I'm not making too much trespassing in going over really something totally out of
range.
So I will try to do my best on these Tu-Chu part of the Togga teachings,
but Togga part of the teachings of Togga teaching, as I said, I will be, I'm not going to talk over
that.
And as I said, I don't think, so I have capability to do this on the internet or the Dzums.
So that you all know that. I'm just going to tell them.
Now Togga practice of this, sorry, Tu-Chu practices, what did the teaching say?
I'm talking, of course the teaching will explain.